[Music]
12 years after the release of the arcade
and NES original, Bionic Commando would
once again find its way to Nintendo's
handheld. This time headed up by a new
studio that would quite arguably create
one of the best entries in the series.
It sees you being sent to take down the
leader of an evil army that plans to
take over the once peaceful land of
Corinia with you having the choice of
two different characters as you tackle
the nearly 20 different levels that make
up the adventure. Even though it's a
platformer in the game, you can't jump
with the key being to utilize your
bionic arm that works like an extending
swing, allowing you to attach yourself
to any ceiling or platform and swing
yourself forward. This mechanic works
into nearly every aspect of the game.
May that be simply traversing each level
or figuring out one of the many puzzles
you'll find yourself coming up against.
It can be a bit tricky to get used to at
first. But as you get better at the
game, all but the hardest of jumps will
become routine. Though that doesn't mean
it doesn't become less fun. Simply
swinging through each level is something
that just never gets old. And when you
couple it with the combat, the gameplay
feels incredibly fluid in motion.
Speaking of combat, you've got a range
of weapons to use to your advantage. And
you'll start off with a basic machine
gun, but later on you'll unlock rocket
launchers, shotguns, and flamethrowers
that broaden the amount of options you
have for taking down some of the more
challenging enemies. If you at all
enjoyed the originals or are simply a
fan of platformers looking for something
a bit different from the norm, then
Bionic Commando on the Game Boy Color is
well worth
it. If there was one genre that the Game
Boy Color was lacking in, it had to be
shooters. But that all changed with the
release of Project S11. That is easily
one of the most impressive games that
landed on the handheld. Similar to a lot
of shooters, there's not much in terms
of story, and you're basically a pilot
of a top secret ship known as the S11,
who's tasked with repelling an alien
invasion. Now, there's about eight
levels in total that see you working
towards locating the alien's planet
against a range of different backdrops
as you're simply tasked with shooting
anything that moves. Thankfully, you've
got a great range of weapons to handle
the wave of enemies with the standard
missiles, lasers, spreadshot, and flame
fountain, which can all be upgraded by
collecting power-ups throughout each
run. In terms of defense, you've got a
shield meter that offers a bit of
protection against bullets, but once it
reaches zero, you lose a life. And if
you lose all four, it's game over. What
effectively enhances the presentation of
S11 is its incorporation of several
gimmicks that elevate it beyond its
otherwise dated appearance. Visually, as
the terrain flows by and numerous ships
pour onto the screen, you'll no doubt be
impressed by the game's use of flowing
water, heat distorted volcanoes, and
huge bosses that look incredible for its
time. The developers, Paragon 5, managed
to achieve this even without any
noticeable flicker or slowdown, making
it one of the best looking games that
you're going to see on the Game Boy
Color when it comes to shooters.
The Game Boy wasn't without its fair
share of platformers, but one that
doesn't get talked about too often is
Samurai Kid, which perfectly blended
action, platforming, and puzzle solving
into one of the most overlooked games on
the console. Much like the name
suggests, you assume the role of a young
samurai, where you've got to reclaim 10
castles throughout the land that have
been overrun by enemies with your move
sets and abilities revolving around
three different weapons. You've got your
katana, a gourd, and a fan that each
come along with unique functions that
are both central to not only combat, but
solving the many different puzzles
throughout each level. Your sword
delivers a powerful charged attack that
can destroy rocks as well as enemies,
whereas the good can be thrown to
activate different switches and the fan
being used to unleash gusts of wind that
can strategically push objects or
enemies into the right position. This
concept of manipulating the environment
is at the core of the gameplay and plays
into each of the levels design. It all
starts out quite simple. For example,
having to lure enemies onto a pressure
plate to open a door. But it soon begins
to get a lot more complicated with the
game introducing time switches, moving
platforms, and other hazards that you'll
have to contend with. It goes handinhand
with another big aspect of the game, and
that's exploring. As hidden within the
depths of each level are hidden
power-ups that rewards players with
extra health and armor that can help you
achieve the highest score for each
level. In the end, Samurai Kid is one of
the most unique platformers you're going
to find on the Game Boy Color, and
thanks to its healthy amount of
challenge, it's something that's perfect
to take with you on the
go. Bomber Man Quest is the perfect mix
of the classic bomb-based gameplay and
Zelda structure and mechanics that ended
up being one of the most overlooked RPGs
on the system. It all kicks off with you
waking up after crash landing in an
unfamiliar land where your goal is to
recapture all of the monsters that
escaped your ship and recover its
engines in order to escape. Now, there
are four main sections in the game, each
housing one of these engines and
monsters that need to be defeated, which
are all linked together by a sort of hub
town where you're free to shop for new
items and craft new weapons. You'll find
yourself venturing out and returning
often to stock up on hearts and bombs,
but you'll slowly begin to unlock new
abilities as you make it further into
the game. From running shoes to shields
and a variety of different armor and
weapons, but what lies at the core of
the game play is the crafting system by
defeating one of the bosses, even some
of the regular monsters as well. You'll
be rewarded with a bomb core, which can
be mixed with one of many different
components such as rubber that can
create different bombs. You've got
bouncing bombs, homing bombs, as well as
ice that freezes enemies in place with
about 15 different types in total. So,
there's a lot to play around with, and
it easily becomes one of the more
enjoyable aspects of the game. Now, you
don't need to capture all 48 of the
escape monsters in order to complete the
game. You just need to defeat every one
of them that has a necessary item that
you need, but you won't get the real
ending without defeating all four
dungeons and their commanders, as well
as the escape monsters. and doing so
gets you access to a hidden final boss
and the true ending for your efforts.
So, if you can find it for a decent
price or are looking to emulate
something new, Bomber Man Quest is
definitely worth
playing. Motocross Maniacs was one of
the first games to hit the Game Boy, and
it felt like the perfect standin for the
lack of an excite bike on the system. It
eventually made a comeback for the Game
Boy Color and once again sees you
jumping on your bike and driving across
a series of sides scrolling courses,
leaping over jumps and cruising through
loops all in the hopes of finishing in
the fastest time possible. What really
adds to the gameplay though is that your
timing is not the only thing you'll have
to worry about as fuel is limited
throughout each run and you'll have to
grab powerups that replenish your stock
as well as nitro that will help you beat
the clock and come in ahead of the pack.
As you course through the air, you're
able to perform a variety of different
tricks from spins and flips that if
landed correctly will earn you a whole
host of hidden power-ups. You've got
jetpacks, faster boosts, and even an
extra life that stops you from crashing
out. So, it's a good idea to get used to
the trick system early on to make it
through some of the more demanding
stages later on. What really helps the
game hit home, though, is the incredible
track editor mode that allows you to
create your own tracks from scratch. And
with the chance to save several at once,
you'll always have something new to
play. With the absence of Excite Bike on
the Game Boy, Motocross Maniacs 2 is a
great alternative. So, if you're looking
for a cool little racer on the handheld,
definitely consider giving this one a
go. Gambon is one of those games that
sadly never got an official release
outside of Japan, but due to it being a
platformer, it's really easy to enjoy
without any knowledge of the language.
The series signature blend of its feudal
Japanese aesthetic and over-the-top
humor is in full swing with the game's
presentation being one of its most
impressive aspects. Konami really pushed
the hardware and delivered a crisp and
colorful adventure that is bursting with
personality. May that be the expressive
and detailed sprites or the fluid and
responsive gameplay. It ends up feeling
like one of the best of its kind on the
handheld. Now, throughout the game,
you'll get to control not only Gman, but
his trusty partner, Ebie, as well, which
each have their own different styles of
play. Gman's pipe offers up quick,
close-ranged attacks, whereas Eby's
longer swings add a little bit of
strategy to the otherwise simple combat.
And having the ability to switch between
the two of them on the fly ensures that
you're ready for whatever the game may
throw at you. Of course, you also get to
use a range of different powerups such
as bombs and invincibility that can
really help out in a tight spot. But
what the game really gets right is its
level design. Each area is meticulously
crafted, seamlessly blending the
challenge of traversing each level with
carefully placed enemies and puzzles
that never make it feel repetitive or
dull. And with plenty of hidden areas
and treasure, you'll find yourself
wanting to jump back in to find each and
every secret in the game. Overall, Gambe
Gon is a great example of why the series
remains just as enjoyable today as it
did all of those years ago. With its
accessible gameplay and infectious sense
of fun, it's well worth tracking down
and trying it out for
[Music]
yourself. Dicatana is pretty well known
for being one of those games that was
hyped up beyond belief, but upon its
release on PC, it absolutely tanked, was
full of bugs, and was nowhere near what
was promised throughout its development.
The console versions didn't fare any
better. But when it came to the Game Boy
Color, the gameplay was completely
reimagined and shared much more in
common with the likes of Zelda and
Cristales, making it perfect for the
portable system. The story revolves
around Hero, the leader of the Miiamoto
clan, who's out to retrieve a sword
known as the Dicatana that has the power
to grant its user the ability to travel
through time. As you work through the 32
levels that make up the campaign, you'll
have to deal with an ever growing number
of different enemy types. But there's a
fair few number of weapons throughout
the game. From swords to lasers and
hammers that make the combat one of the
most enjoyable aspects. Apart from the
fighting, you've got a ton of puzzles to
contend with as well, which surprisingly
provide a decent amount of challenge to
complete. From simple platforming to
real head scratches that will have you
scrambling for the solution, they
provide a great change of pace
throughout the game. That isn't to say
that it's not without its issues,
though, and the main one has to be the
way it's written, which ends up being
quite confusing. Add to this that
throughout the game, you'll be forced to
play as different characters that don't
have access to the same weapons that
Hero has, and it does dampen an
otherwise really good adventure. Even
though it may seem strange, if you're
looking to give Die Katana a go, the
Game Boy Color Vision is definitely the
best
option. It's the spiritual successor to
the NES COD classic Shadow of the Ninja.
Return brings with it all of the tight
platforming and stealth mechanics that
made the original so beloved and throws
you into the role of a ninja who has to
retrieve a set of stolen scrolls taken
by a powerful mysterious army that now
haunts the once peaceful kingdom. You
get to choose from one of two different
characters at the start who each have a
slightly different play style that adds
a bit of variety to the game. Both of
them wield a katana but offer up
different secondary weapons with one of
them getting shurikens and the other a
boomerang which give you a means to
tackle enemies from afar. The gameplay
itself is responsive allowing you to
navigate each level with precision but
the standout mechanic has to be the
backflip that's not only used to evade
incoming attacks but to also access some
of the harder to reach areas. Unlike
some of the other platformers of its
time, Return of the Ninja places a great
emphasis on stealth. And to avoid being
seen, you get to use the environment to
your advantage. May that be hiding
behind crates, submerging yourself in
water, or simply timing your movements
to remain unseen. It encourages more
deliberate and slower approach than,
say, the likes of Ninja Gaiden, which is
further enforced at the end of each
level, where you're rewarded with a rank
based on your stealth speed, and the
enemies that you've taken down. While
it's not exactly groundbreaking for a
Game Boy Color game, it lends to the
tension of staying out of sight, which
helps to keep each level engaging. So
whether you're sneaking into an enemy
stronghold, back flipping over gaps, or
battling one of the many imposing
bosses, Return of the Ninja is a
well-crafted ride, and thanks to a
limited run reprint and emulation, it's
easier than ever to jump
into. Harry Potter in the Chamber of
Secrets was a completely different take
when compared to the games that released
on home consoles. It wasn't a
straightforward action adventure and
instead steered the game into a
turn-based RPG that was perfectly
tailored towards the strengths of the
handheld. Like most RPGs, it's equal
parts exploring and fighting with the
turn-based battles offering the core of
the gameplay where you control Harry,
Hermione, and Ron as a party and get to
wield their unique magic. It's your
pretty standard menu-based system that
sees you casting spells, using items, or
defending and watching the group unleash
their attacks in satisfying bursts. As
you would expect, progression also
manages to play a major role. And all of
your spells will level up the more you
use them and end up becoming more
powerful versions that offer multiple
hits and a higher amount of damage,
ensuring that you'll always be in with a
fighting chance. Outside of the battles,
you'll roam around the school and have
to deal with several puzzles that can
only be solved by leveraging your magic
in different ways. From creating
platforms to cross gaps to pulling
levers and pushing objects. And with so
many secrets to be found, it's a good
idea to explore as much as you can. With
the game rewarding those who go out of
their way with special items that
benefit the party in several ways, it's
not a game that stands out as one of the
best RPGs on the system by any means,
but one that proves that even a licensed
game can end up being something rather
special, and even though it got
overshadowed by some of the bigger hits
on the handheld, for fans, it is
definitely worth a playthrough.
Dragon Warrior Monsters is a spin-off of
the popular Dragon Quest series that
many write off as a simple Pokemon
clone, but doing so would be doing a
huge disservice to the game. As even
though it does share many of its
aspects, especially the monster
collecting, it does bring a fair few of
its own ideas to the table. The helper
becomes something more than a mere
imitation. The adventure begins as you
take on the role of Terry, who sets out
in search of its sister, and as stories
go, it's pretty decent for the
limitations that are set by the
handheld. and it actually manages to
weave its narrative throughout the
entire game with plenty of surprises and
moments that elevate it above what you'd
find in Pokmon. And it's not just the
story that has more to offer. The aim of
the game is to raise the strongest
monster you can, not just simply collect
them all. As in fact, you wouldn't have
the room to do so. Instead, breeding is
at the center of building a formidable
team of monsters. And with just over 200
to catch, there's a lot of potential for
creating your own beasts. And this is
where a lot of your time will be spent.
As you wander around the world, you'll
quickly get thrown into battle. And the
combat system is slightly different than
the one found in Pokemon. As you can set
your monsters to act in a certain way
and watch each fight unfold, choosing
from either charge, mixed, or cautious.
Each option will develop the monster in
a certain way as you progress as it
slowly learns and adapts to your
approach in each encounter. Of course,
it can all be turned off, and you're
free to tackle each battle by selecting
their abilities on your own. That really
amps up the amount of strategy
throughout the game. Swift collecting
monsters and creating your own is your
f. Dragon Warrior is one game you do not
want to skip. Well, that does it for
another video. Keep an eye out for the
next part as that will be coming up
soon. So, don't forget to subscribe and
hit that bell to get notified about new
videos. You can follow me on all of the
socials which are linked below to stay
up to date and also join my growing
community on Discord to meet many
like-minded gamers to continue the
conversation with. I'd like to give a
special shout out to my Patreon
supporters. Rhino, Skill, Jim, Shuden,
Richard, Amy, Daniel, Dio, Omar,
Strider, Pierre, Carl, Awesome Jacket,
Dude, Maximus, Scott, Alfred, Terry,
Ryan, Alex, Gamecube Galaxy, Kur
Salerman, Fake, and Patty J for their
continued support that helps make these
videos possible. If you're interested in
joining the Discord or supporting the
channel through Patreon, you'll find all
of these links down below.
[Music]